---
layout: post
title: Week 14 from Carol Ramsey
---

**What did you do this past week?**   **What's in your way?**   **What will you do next week?**    **Tip of the Week**  I imagine folks have had all the traditional interview advice they can handle so I will share a story of my worst interview of all time. I can laugh about it now. Ha ha ha ha cringe ha ha.   It was the late 90s and the .com boom was going strong, with just hints of possible future collapse. Jobs were everywhere, salaries were huge and people’s emergency savings accounts were in the super-stable, always-rising (never true) stock market. I quit one job without having another, because I wanted to, and got an interview with National Instruments soon after. I was still basking in the glow of being a Java Tech Lead and Project Manager, in the days when I could get job offers in a bar on Saturday night. I didn’t prepare for the interview.   I did pretty well early in the interview and I was pretty confident, until the interviewer asked, “What do you think of our products?” Uh, what? You are asking ME questions? Don’t you NEED me to work for you? Then he asked me how I would traverse a linked list and I didn’t take the question very seriously.   When I didn’t get a call in the next few days to discuss my huge salary, I started to wonder. I looked up National Instruments on the Internet and their products were super cool and they had been voted as the best place to work about 1000 times. Hmmmmm. I thought about the linked list question. If I would have focused for a minute, I could have said, set a pointer to the head, use ‘while pointer <> null’ for the loop and advance the pointer, ‘pointer = pointer.next’ at the bottom of the loop. That wasn’t hard.   It was about that time then when I heard the news, “NBC lays off 10% of its work force.”   What? The crazy, ad-based, no-reliable-revenue tech companies were failing, but the real companies and the economy overall were fine! But, no, they weren’t. The .com crash happened, tech in Austin tanked, and I was without a job.   Ha ha ha ha ha. I can laugh about it now, sort of. Now I take every interview seriously and I take less for granted. A tech career is stable and lucrative most of the time, but it isn’t without risk. 
